This concludes the favorite recipes part.
Now it's time to make sure that we actually filter our recipes because keep in mind and category meals
screen we're actually retrieving our filtered meals from our state.
And right now of course in our state that filtered meals property always holds all meals and never changes
and that's something I want to change as a next step.
Again let's start by adding an appropriate action that starts by adding a identifier which I export
here and I'll name this set filters and set filters here as a text as well and create a fitting action
creator function set filters.
And here I expect to get an argument with my filter settings that should be an object in the end with
the is gluten free is lactose free is vegan and is a vegetarian.
Data in it that will return an action object where the type of course is set filters so does identifier
and then the filters while that's my filter settings object so does object with all the while True or
false values for the four different filter criteria.
So we have that's the action CREATOR.
NOW WHAT SHALL WE DO IN THE reducer in the reducer we now need to handle that new case.
So here before default I'll add the case where a handle set filters.
And for Dad you need to import the set filters identifier from the meals actions and inset filters.
The goal now of course is to update our filtered meals to reflect the filters set up.
Now keep in mind that this actual contained a filter is key which in the end will be a javascript object
which has something like gluten free true lactose free falls and we want to reflect these settings in
our filtered meals array so here I'll have my applied filter as let's say where I simply extract the
filters from the actions.
That's of course a step you could leave out.
I'm just trying to write understandable code which speaks for itself.
So I'm just extracting the filters set up by the user and we'll take care about dispatching this actually
later.
And then here I'll set my filter meals create a new filter meals constant based on my total meals so
not the filtered meals but all the meals available and there I want to filter them with the built in
filter method.
Javascript offers filter always returns a brand new Array which is good because it don't want to edit
any existing array just yet.
I want to get a new array instead and dad will be an array where it keeps all items for which does function
we pass to filter returns true and drops all items where we return false dysfunctional run for every
meal and then now in this function we can go through all the filters to use reset and check whether
that meal matches any of the filters and therefore should be dropped or if it passes all filters so
to say it should be kept.
So here we can check if filters dot gluten free and I simply expect that my filters excuse me applied
filters that this object I get has a gluten free key.
If that is true and my meal is not gluten free and hence I need to add exclamation mark here then I
know that this meal should be dropped right because it is not gluten free but I have a filter that it
should be gluten free so I will return false and I don't care about any other filters because it already
doesn't match this filter.
I can drop it if we make it past this if check we can check the next filter applied filters lactose
free.
If that's true and my meal is not lactose free.
Same logic as before with the clue teens I can return false and drop it.
Next def check if applied filters vegetarian is set and my meal is not vegetarian.
So same logic as before again I can drop it because I might have passed the other filters but if the
meal is not vegetarian but I am looking for vegetarian meals then I should get rid of it at last but
not least applied filters thought vegan.
If I'm looking for a vegan meals but my meal is not vegan here and by the way here I'm just leveraging
all these properties that are part of my meals.
If we have a look at our models at the meal there we do have is gluten free is vegan and so on as properties
on every single meal so every single meal has the information for which filters that should be included
or excluded.
So every meal has that and I'm just using this here in the reducer.
So therefore here in the vegan case I also wouldn't want to return false and only if I make it past
all these checks I know I have a meal that matches all filters I set there for now I can return true.
I'm still inside of that filter method and a return true which means I want to keep that meal in my
filtered meals constant which is my new array and now overall after deriving this filtered meals array
I have to return a new state by copying the old state and then I want to override my filtered meals
here with the filter of meals I'd arrived here so filter meals on the left of the colon is the property
in the state object.
So essentially this property and filtered meals on the right side of the colon where Fuller refers to
this constant.
I can also named as updated filtered meals to be clearer about this.
This is how my state gets updated when filters get set.
Now of course we need to make sure we all the dispatch does action eventually.